---
layout: post
title: "Importance of fish age and growth in fisheries management and research"
date: 2021-06-17
---

The knowledge of fish age and growth is fundamental to fisheries science. Fish demographic information can be used to assess how population dynamics vary through time, predict future trends in stock status and abundance, identify environmental variables that influence somatic growth rates, and determine the efficacy of fishery management practices and conservation policies. However, one of the primary challenges faced by scientists is to accurately evaluate the age and growth of fish. The logistical and financial constraints of conducting long-term field and observational studies within aquatic environments have resulted in an alarming scarcity of demographic data on which to forecast the present and future biological responses of fish to changing climatic conditions. Well-validated and time-dependent features naturally archived in the calcified structures of fishes, such as otoliths, may however solve this problem. 

Otoliths (ear stones) are calcium carbonate structures found in the vestibular system of bony fishes. These structures play a crucial role in the spatial orientation, hearing, and movement of fishes. There are three pairs of otoliths (sagittae, asterisci, lapilli) in each fish (Figure 1). The sagittae (singular: sagitta) are the largest pair of otoliths in most teleosts and are commonly used for age and growth estimations. The asterisci (singular: asteriscus) are the largest pair of otoliths in ostariophysian fishes (e.g., cyprinids) and are used for ageing analyses in members of the superorder. The lapilli (singular: lapillus) are the smallest pair of otoliths and are not typically used for age determination in adult fishes. Each pair of otoliths can vary considerably in morphology (shape), and position, both within and among species. 

Estimation of individual fish age is based on the visual inspection of periodic, concentric marks produced on the otolith, and the distances between these increments can be used to predict somatic growth rates. Otoliths provide an invaluable tool to understand the inner workings of fish population dynamics, as material is accreted daily and annually throughout the entire life, forming a permanent record of key life-history events and the environmental conditions experienced by an individual. An additional advantage is that otoliths do not erode or undergo resorption during periods of high calcium demand (i.e., sexual maturation, migration, or nutritional stress), unlike other hard structures, like scales and skeletal bones. 

Biochronologies developed from the information recorded in otoliths are an invaluable, albeit under-utilised, resource in Southeast Asia, despite being used for fisheries management and research in many other parts of the world. This represents a significant knowledge gap in our understanding of the status and abundance of fish stocks from the region and the factors that affect their population dynamics. It is imperative to obtain an accurate measurement of the age and growth data using these structures, as they can provide valuable insights into the life-history patterns of fish and the potential biological responses to future environmental change.
